docs/src/getting_started.md, before:

# Getting started
This page provides instructions for installing VortexAD. 

## Installation

### Installation instructions for users
For direct installation with all dependencies, run on the terminal or command line
```sh
$ pip install git+https://github.com/LSDOlab/VortexAD.git
```
If you want users to install a specific branch, run
```sh
$ pip install git+https://github.com/LSDOlab/VortexAD.git@branch
```

<!-- **Enabled by**: Copying the `setup.py` file, changing your repository name and version,  -->
<!-- and adding all your dependencies into the list `install_requires`. -->

### Installation instructions for developers
To install `VortexAD`, first clone the repository and install using pip.
On the terminal or command line, run
```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/LSDOlab/VortexAD.git
$ pip install -e ./VortexAD
```

## Dependencies
<!-- `VortexAD` relies on a set of existing packages for a variety of things. Many of these packages are installed automatically to facilitate the installation process.

`VortexAD` is built using `CSDL`, a computational framework designed to facilitate the development of MDO models. `CSDL` provides the automatic adjoint-based differentiation capabilities. There are two ways to install `CSDL`. Users can install by running the command
```sh
pip install git+https://github.com/LSDOlab/csdl_alpha.git@dev_custom
```
in the terminal window. The `@dev_custom` refers to a *specific* branch of `CSDL`.

Developers can also `git clone` the repository by cloning and then installing using pip. On the terminal or command line, run
```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/LSDOlab/csdl_alpha.git
$ cd csdl_alpha
$ git checkout dev_custom
$ pip install -e .
``` -->

`VortexAD` automatically installs other software tools to aid with plotting and reading complex grid & mesh files, described below.

| Package | Description |
|:---|:---|
| [CSDL](https://csdl-alpha.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) | Base language to build MDO models |
| [JAX](https://docs.jax.dev/en/latest/) | Framework for high-performance numerical computing |
| [meshio](https://pypi.org/project/meshio/) | I/O for mesh and grid files |
| [vedo](https://vedo.embl.es/) | Plotting framework |
| [Ozone](https://github.com/LSDOlab/ozone) | ODE software for unsteady solver |

```{note}
`VortexAD` automatically installs the `dev_custom` branch of `csdl`, as some of the `csdl` developments have not been pushed to the `main` branch. This branch of CSDL also requires `networkx`, which is automatically installed as well.
```

<!-- ### Optimization
To use VortexAD for optimization, a set of additional packages are required.

- lsdo_geo
- lsdo_function_spaces -->

<!-- **Enabled by**: Copying the setup.py file, and changing your repository name and version. -->

<!-- ## Setting up Documentation

If you are not interested in using this repository as a template but only want to use the documentation template, 
just copy the `/docs` directory and the `.readthedocs.yaml` file into your package root.
However, make sure you have all the dependencies mentioned in the `setup.py` file installed before you build your
documentation.

### Writing
Start by modifying the documentation pages by editing `.md` files in the `/src` directory.
Customize/add/remove pages from the template according to your package's requirements.

For automatically generated API references, add docstrings to your modules, classes, functions, etc., and
then edit the list of directories containing files with docstrings intended for automatic API generation. 
This can be done by editing the line `autoapi_dirs = ["../../VortexAD/core"]` 
in `conf.py` in the `/src` directory.

Add Python files for examples and Jupyter notebooks for tutorials into the main project repository. 
Filenames for examples should start with'ex_'.
Add your examples and tutorials to the toctrees in `examples.md` and `tutorials.md` respectively.

### Building
Once you have all the source code written for your documentation, on the terminal/command line, run `make html`.
This will build all the html pages locally and you can verify if the documentation was built as intended by
opening the `docs/_build/html/welcome.html` on your browser.

### Hosting
On your *Read the Docs* account, **import** your project **manually** from github repository, and link the `/docs` directory.
Make sure to edit `requirements.txt` with dependencies for *Read the Docs* to build the documentation exactly
as in your local build.
Optionally, edit the `.readthedocs.yml` in the project root directory for building with specific operating systems or versions of Python.
After you commit and push, *Read the Docs* will build your package on its servers and once its complete,
you will see your documentation online.
The default website address will be generated based on your *Read the Docs* project name as `https://<proj_name>.readthedocs.io/`.
You can also customize the URL on *Read the Docs*, if needed.

## Setting up Testing -->

Commit message:

fixed issue with ozone and csdl dependency + free wake testing

docs/src/getting_started.md, after:

# Getting started
This page provides instructions for installing VortexAD. 

## Installation

### Installation instructions for users
For direct installation with all dependencies, run on the terminal or command line
```sh
$ pip install git+https://github.com/LSDOlab/VortexAD.git
```
If you want users to install a specific branch, run
```sh
$ pip install git+https://github.com/LSDOlab/VortexAD.git@branch
```

<!-- **Enabled by**: Copying the `setup.py` file, changing your repository name and version,  -->
<!-- and adding all your dependencies into the list `install_requires`. -->

### Installation instructions for developers
To install `VortexAD`, first clone the repository and install using pip.
On the terminal or command line, run
```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/LSDOlab/VortexAD.git
$ pip install -e ./VortexAD
```

## Dependencies
<!-- `VortexAD` relies on a set of existing packages for a variety of things. Many of these packages are installed automatically to facilitate the installation process.

`VortexAD` is built using `CSDL`, a computational framework designed to facilitate the development of MDO models. `CSDL` provides the automatic adjoint-based differentiation capabilities. There are two ways to install `CSDL`. Users can install by running the command
```sh
pip install git+https://github.com/LSDOlab/csdl_alpha.git@dev_custom
```
in the terminal window. The `@dev_custom` refers to a *specific* branch of `CSDL`.

Developers can also `git clone` the repository by cloning and then installing using pip. On the terminal or command line, run
```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/LSDOlab/csdl_alpha.git
$ cd csdl_alpha
$ git checkout dev_custom
$ pip install -e .
``` -->

`VortexAD` relies on a set of software tools (which are automatically installed) to aid with plotting and reading complex grid & mesh files, described below. 

| Package | Description |
|:---|:---|
| [CSDL](https://csdl-alpha.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) | Base language to build MDO models |
| [JAX](https://docs.jax.dev/en/latest/) | Framework for high-performance numerical computing |
| [meshio](https://pypi.org/project/meshio/) | I/O for mesh and grid files |
| [vedo](https://vedo.embl.es/) | Plotting framework |
| [Ozone](https://github.com/LSDOlab/ozone) | ODE software for unsteady solver |

```{note}
`VortexAD` automatically installs the `dev_custom` branch of `csdl`, as some of the `csdl` developments have not been pushed to the `main` branch. This branch of CSDL also requires `networkx`, which is automatically installed as well.
```

```{warning}
Due to version issues, `VortexAD` does not automatically install the correct branch of `csdl`. We are actively resolving this issue. For now, after installing `VortexAD`, please run the following in the command line:

```sh
pip install git+https://github.com/LSDOlab/csdl_alpha.git@dev_custom
```



<!-- ### Optimization
To use VortexAD for optimization, a set of additional packages are required.

- lsdo_geo
- lsdo_function_spaces -->

<!-- **Enabled by**: Copying the setup.py file, and changing your repository name and version. -->

<!-- ## Setting up Documentation

If you are not interested in using this repository as a template but only want to use the documentation template, 
just copy the `/docs` directory and the `.readthedocs.yaml` file into your package root.
However, make sure you have all the dependencies mentioned in the `setup.py` file installed before you build your
documentation.

### Writing
Start by modifying the documentation pages by editing `.md` files in the `/src` directory.
Customize/add/remove pages from the template according to your package's requirements.

For automatically generated API references, add docstrings to your modules, classes, functions, etc., and
then edit the list of directories containing files with docstrings intended for automatic API generation. 
This can be done by editing the line `autoapi_dirs = ["../../VortexAD/core"]` 
in `conf.py` in the `/src` directory.

Add Python files for examples and Jupyter notebooks for tutorials into the main project repository. 
Filenames for examples should start with'ex_'.
Add your examples and tutorials to the toctrees in `examples.md` and `tutorials.md` respectively.

### Building
Once you have all the source code written for your documentation, on the terminal/command line, run `make html`.
This will build all the html pages locally and you can verify if the documentation was built as intended by
opening the `docs/_build/html/welcome.html` on your browser.

### Hosting
On your *Read the Docs* account, **import** your project **manually** from github repository, and link the `/docs` directory.
Make sure to edit `requirements.txt` with dependencies for *Read the Docs* to build the documentation exactly
as in your local build.
Optionally, edit the `.readthedocs.yml` in the project root directory for building with specific operating systems or versions of Python.
After you commit and push, *Read the Docs* will build your package on its servers and once its complete,
you will see your documentation online.
The default website address will be generated based on your *Read the Docs* project name as `https://<proj_name>.readthedocs.io/`.
You can also customize the URL on *Read the Docs*, if needed.

## Setting up Testing -->
